index.md, before:

## Blog Your PhD

Welcome on my github blog space where I might publish some preliminary results.

#### [03-01-2019: Transition from TF to PyTorch](./docs/2019-01-03_transition_tf_pytorch.md)

#### [29-10-2018: Online Life Long Learning](./docs/2018-10-29_online_LLL.md)

#### [29-10-2018: Life Long Learning on Doshico](./docs/2018-10-29_LLL_on_doshico.md)

#### [18-10-2018: Real World Life Long Learning](./docs/2018-10-18_real-world-lifelong-learning.md)

#### [16-10-2018: Evaluation of ROS-openAI](./docs/2018-10-16_evaluation_of_ros_openai.md)

#### [24-09-2018: Noise Augmentation](./docs/2018-09-24_noise_augmentation.md)

#### [06-09-2018: Implementing Ensemble](./docs/2018-09-06_implementing_ensemble.md)

#### [28-08-2018: Factoring Control](./docs/2018-08-28_factoring_control.md)

#### [13-08-2018: Debug Condor](./docs/2018-08-13_debug_ros_gazebo_on_condor.md)

#### [10-07-2018: DoShiCo revisited](./docs/2018-07-10_doshico_revisited.md)

#### [03-07-2018: Increasing influence of action at input side of value function](./docs/2018-07-03_increase_action_influence.md)

#### [23-06-2018: All-in-one Singularity image for depth-q-net results](./docs/2018-06-23_all_in_one_singularity.md)

#### [14-06-2018: Unit tests simulation supervised](./docs/2018-06-14_unit_tests_simulation_supervised.md)

#### [06-06-2018: Domain Free Collision Avoidance](./docs/2018-06-06_domain_free_collision_avoidance.md)

#### [25-05-2018: Structuring ideas after SIMPAR-ICRA](./docs/2018-05-25_structuring_ideas.md)

#### [08-02-2018: Setting up Turtlebot](./docs/2018-02-14_settingupturtlebot.md)

#### [08-02-2018: Experiments on Depth Q Learning](./docs/2018-02-08_depth_q_learning.md)

#### [02-01-2018: Gridsearch results](./docs/2018-01-02_gridsearch.md)

#### [21-12-2017: Paper idea: Learning camera rules from youtube videos for autonomous UAVs](./docs/2017-12-21_gan_rl.md)

#### [20-12-2017: variance in runs on condor (ongoing)](./docs/2017-12-20_variance.md)

#### [19-12-2017: building discrete control (ongoing)](./docs/2017-12-19_discrete_control.md)

#### [13-12-2017: clean build from Dockerfile](./docs/2017-12-13_docker_build.md)

#### [06-12-2017: condor with docker or singularity](./docs/2017-12-06_sing_dock_on_condor.md)

#### [29-11-2017: update singularity image](./docs/2017-11-29_sing_dock_esat.md)

#### [22-11-2017: checking delays with ROS - Gazebo - Tensorflow - Docker - Singularity](./docs/2017-11-22_delays.md)

Commit message:

add policy gradient chapter parts

index.md, after:

## Blog Your PhD

Welcome on my github blog space where I might publish some preliminary results.

#### [22-01-2019: Notes on experiments related to policy learning chapter](./docs/2019-01-22_policy_learning_blogversion.md)

#### [03-01-2019: Transition from TF to PyTorch](./docs/2019-01-03_transition_tf_pytorch.md)

#### [29-10-2018: Online Life Long Learning](./docs/2018-10-29_online_LLL.md)

#### [29-10-2018: Life Long Learning on Doshico](./docs/2018-10-29_LLL_on_doshico.md)

#### [18-10-2018: Real World Life Long Learning](./docs/2018-10-18_real-world-lifelong-learning.md)

#### [16-10-2018: Evaluation of ROS-openAI](./docs/2018-10-16_evaluation_of_ros_openai.md)

#### [24-09-2018: Noise Augmentation](./docs/2018-09-24_noise_augmentation.md)

#### [06-09-2018: Implementing Ensemble](./docs/2018-09-06_implementing_ensemble.md)

#### [28-08-2018: Factoring Control](./docs/2018-08-28_factoring_control.md)

#### [13-08-2018: Debug Condor](./docs/2018-08-13_debug_ros_gazebo_on_condor.md)

#### [10-07-2018: DoShiCo revisited](./docs/2018-07-10_doshico_revisited.md)

#### [03-07-2018: Increasing influence of action at input side of value function](./docs/2018-07-03_increase_action_influence.md)

#### [23-06-2018: All-in-one Singularity image for depth-q-net results](./docs/2018-06-23_all_in_one_singularity.md)

#### [14-06-2018: Unit tests simulation supervised](./docs/2018-06-14_unit_tests_simulation_supervised.md)

#### [06-06-2018: Domain Free Collision Avoidance](./docs/2018-06-06_domain_free_collision_avoidance.md)

#### [25-05-2018: Structuring ideas after SIMPAR-ICRA](./docs/2018-05-25_structuring_ideas.md)

#### [08-02-2018: Setting up Turtlebot](./docs/2018-02-14_settingupturtlebot.md)

#### [08-02-2018: Experiments on Depth Q Learning](./docs/2018-02-08_depth_q_learning.md)

#### [02-01-2018: Gridsearch results](./docs/2018-01-02_gridsearch.md)

#### [21-12-2017: Paper idea: Learning camera rules from youtube videos for autonomous UAVs](./docs/2017-12-21_gan_rl.md)

#### [20-12-2017: variance in runs on condor (ongoing)](./docs/2017-12-20_variance.md)

#### [19-12-2017: building discrete control (ongoing)](./docs/2017-12-19_discrete_control.md)

#### [13-12-2017: clean build from Dockerfile](./docs/2017-12-13_docker_build.md)

#### [06-12-2017: condor with docker or singularity](./docs/2017-12-06_sing_dock_on_condor.md)

#### [29-11-2017: update singularity image](./docs/2017-11-29_sing_dock_esat.md)

#### [22-11-2017: checking delays with ROS - Gazebo - Tensorflow - Docker - Singularity](./docs/2017-11-22_delays.md)
